.de Id
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.ds = \-\^\-
.de Sp
.if t .sp .3
.if n .sp
..
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH XMLPATCH 1 "March 24, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
xmlpatch \- Simple utility to change XML files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B patch
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ origfile
.RI [ patchfile ]]
.Sp
but usually just
.Sp
.BI "patch \-p" "num"
.BI < patchfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xmlpatch
takes a patch file
.I patchfile
containing a list of changes and applies them on the files specified
in the
.I patchfile
or on the file
.I origfile
if it is specified.

Normally the patched versions are put in place of the originals, but backups can be made.
.SH OPTIONS
Program accepts following options:
.TP
\fB\-b\fP  or  \fB\-\-backup\fP
Make backup files.  That is, when patching a file, rename or copy the original
instead of removing it.
.TP
\fB\-B\fP \fIpref\fP  or  \fB\-\-prefix=\fP\fIpref\fP
Append
.I pref
to a file name when generating its backup file name.
For example, with
.B "\-B\ /junk/"
the backup file name for
.B src/patch/util.c
is
.BR /junk/src/patch/util.c .
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fIdir\fP  or  \fB\-\-directory=\fP\fIdir\fP
Change to the directory
.I dir
immediately, before doing anything else.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP  or  \fB\-\-help\fP
Print a summary of options and exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIpatchfile\fP  or  \fB\-\-input=\fP\fIpatchfile\fP
Read the patch from
.IR patchfile .
If
.I patchfile
is
.BR \- ,
read from standard input, the default.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutfile\fP  or  \fB\-\-output=\fP\fIoutfile\fP
Send output to
.I outfile
instead of patching files in place.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP\fInum\fP  or  \fB\-\-strip\fP\fB=\fP\fInum\fP
Strip the smallest prefix containing
.I num
leading slashes from each file name found in the patch file.
A sequence of one or more adjacent slashes is counted as a single slash.
This controls how file names found in the patch file are treated, in case
you keep your files in a different directory than the person who sent
out the patch.
For example, supposing the file name in the patch file was
.Sp 
    \fB/u/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.xml\fP
.Sp
setting
.B \-p0
gives the entire file name unmodified,
.B \-p1
gives
.Sp
        \fBu/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.xml\fP
.Sp
without the leading slash,
.B \-p4
gives
.Sp
        \fBblurfl/blurfl.xml\fP
.Sp
and not specifying
.B \-p
at all just gives you \fBblurfl.xml\fP.
Whatever you end up with is looked for either in the current directory,
or the directory specified by the
.B \-d
option.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIrejectfile\fP  or  \fB\-\-reject\-file=\fP\fIrejectfile\fP
Put rejects into
.I rejectfile
instead of the default
.B \&.rej
file.  When \fIrejectfile\fP is \fB\-\fP, discard rejects.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP  or  \fB\-\-silent\fP  or  \fB\-\-quiet\fP
Work silently, unless an error occurs.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP  or  \fB\-\-version\fP
Print out
.BR xmlpatch 's
version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-x\fP  or  \fB\-\-expand\fP
Expand environment variables found in patch file before doing anything else.
Variable identificators can be specified as
.BR $VARIABLE_NAME .
.TP
\fB\-Y\fP \fIpref\fP  or  \fB\-\-basename\-prefix=\fP\fIpref\fP
Prefix
.I pref
to the basename of a file name when generating its backup file name.
For example, with
.B "\-Y\ .del/"
the backup file name for
.B src/patch/util.xml
is
.BR src/patch/.del/util.xml .
.TP
\fB\-z\fP \fIsuffix\fP  or  \fB\*=suffix=\fP\fIsuffix\fP
Use
.I suffix
as the suffix.
For example, with
.B "\-z\ -"
the backup file name for
.B src/patch/util.xml
is
.BR src/patch/util.xml- .
.SH PATCH FILE FORMAT
.nf
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<changes>
    <change file="filename">
        <add sel="xpath expression">
            CONTENT_TO_BE_ADDED
        </add>
        <replace sel="xpath expression">
            NEW_CONTENT
        </add>
        <remove sel="xpath expression"/>
    </change>
</changes>
.fi
.TP
\fB<changes>\fP node
This node is used to group one or more
.B <change>
node. If there is only one
.B <change>
node, then usage of 
.B <changes>
node is optional.
.TP
\fB\<change file="\fP\fIfilename\fP\fB">\fP node
This node is used to group operations performed on one file specified by 
.B file
attribute. The 
.I filename
is modified according to
.B -p
option and can be overrided by specifying 
.I origfile
on commandline. 
In that case the attribute is optional.

This node can contain any number of
.BR <add> ,
.B <replace> 
and
.B <remove>
nodes.
.TP
\fB\<add sel="\fP\fIxpath expression\fP\fB">\fP node
Add content of this node to the place specified by
.I xpath 
.IR expression .
.TP
\fB\<replace sel="\fP\fIxpath expression\fP\fB">\fP node
Replace node specified by
.I xpath 
.IR expression .
with content of this node.
.TP
\fB\<remove sel="\fP\fIxpath expression\fP\fB">\fP node
Delete node (and all its children) specified by
.I xpath 
.IR expression .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR patch (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
xmlpatch and this manual page was written by Petr Malat <oss@malat.biz>. 
The manual page is heavily based on patch(1) manual page.
